# Smoluchowski-Rotor-Chain
Smoluchowski-Rotor-Chain is a simple C++ program devoted to the diffusive simulation of a chain of hydrodynamically independent 2D rotors interacting with a nearest-neighbour potential. The software solves the Symmetrized Fokker-Planck-Smoluchowski eigenvalue problem by expansion over a basis set.

## Requirements
* [gcc (g++)](https://gcc.gnu.org/) 9.3
* [CBLAS](http://www.netlib.org/blas/) 3.8
* [LAPACK](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/) 3.8
* [gnu-gsl](https://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) 2.6
* [OpenMP](https://www.openmp.org/) (only for parallel version)

## Compiling
 A `Makefile` is provided to compile the code. The serial compilation can be linked against the system installation of the CBLAS library:
 ```
 make serial
 ```
 or against the CBLAS version provided by GNU-GSL:
 ```
 make serial-gsl
 ```
 A parallel (multi-threaded) version of the software can also be compiled linking against the OpenMP library either with the system CBLAS library:
 ```
 make parallel
 ```
 or against the one provided by GNU-GSL:
 ```
 make parallel-gsl
 ```
 The `make clean` command can be used to remove the executable file.

## Running calculations
In order to perform a calulation an input file must be provided as inline argument to the `main.exe` executable.
```
./main.exe input.txt
```
The program can be executed in background and the output redirected to an `output.txt` file using the syntax:
```
./main.exe input.txt > output.txt &
```
If a parallel version of the program is compiled the number of threads can be selected through the OpenMP environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS`.

### Input file syntax
The command syntax for the program must be always structurated as follows:
```
# KEYWORD
parameters
```
The line marked by `#` identify a command line. The line should contain the marker `#` followed by a single white space and a keyword. The full list of keyword is available in the next section. The first line after the keyword must contain the parameters either as a single number (if only one is required) or as a list of numbers separated by a `,`. Floating point numbers can be expressed in exponential form (e.g. `6.02e-23`). The `.` must be used as decimal point.

Every input file should contain the number of rotors to be considered. This can be specified as:
```
# NROT
number of rotors
```
Please note how `# NROT` represent the number of rotors and not the number of dihedral angles.

### Input file keywords
Keyword | Description | Number of parameters | Type | Default value
 :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
`NROT` | Number of rotors in the chain | 1 | `integer` | -
`NUM-MIN` | Number of potential minimum | `NROT-1` | `integer list` | 1
`ISOLATED-BASIS` | Number of single dihedral basis functions | `NROT-1` | `integer list` | 100
`COUPLED-BASIS` | Number of single dihedral eigenfunctions to be used in the multiple rotor expansion | `NROT-1` | `integer list` | 10
`BARRIER` | Potential energy barrier for each dihedral | `NROT-1` | `double list` | 1.
`DIFFUSION-COEFF` | Diffusion coefficient for each rotor | `NROT` | `double list` | 1.
`NPT-INTEG-SINGLE` | Maximum number of integration points for the single dihedral | 1 | `int` | 10000
`ABS-INTEG-SINGLE` | Absolute integrator error threshold for the single dihedral | 1 | `double` | 1e-10
`REL-INTEG-SINGLE` | Relative integrator error threshold for the single dihedral | 1 | `double` | 1e-10
`QAG-KEY-SINGLE` | GSL key for selecting the QAG integrator order for the single dihedral | 1 | `int` | 6
`NPT-INTEG-COUPLED` | Maximum number of integration points for the rotor chain | 1 | `int` | 10000
`ABS-INTEG-COUPLED` | Absolute integrator error threshold for the rotor chain | 1 | `double` | 1e-10
`REL-INTEG-COUPLED` | Relative integrator error threshold for the rotor chain | 1 | `double` | 1e-10
`QAG-KEY-COUPLED` | GSL key for selecting the QAG integrator order for the rotor chain | 1 | `int` | 6
`SAVE-VQE` | Setting the flag to `1` or `0` activate or deactivate the generation of a file containing the matrix of sFPS operator integrals on the composite basis set | 1 | `bool` (as `0` or `1`) | 0
`SAVE-EIGVAL-LIST` | Setting the flag to `1` or `0` activate or deactivate the generation of a file containing all the eigenvalues computed for the system | 1 | `bool` (as `0` or `1`) | 0
`SINGLE-COUPLED_SCAN` | Setup a basis-set dimension scan for a defined dihedral (for more informations see the "Independent coupled basis scan keyword" section) | 4 | `integer list` | -
`LOCKED-COUPLED_SCAN` | Setup a basis-set dimension scan for all dihedral (for more informations see the "Locked coupled basis scan keyword" section) | 3 | `integer list` | -
`DEBUG` | Setting the flag to 1 or 0 activate or deactivate the generation of debug files containing various informations about the data generated by the software (for more informations see the "Debug data" section) | 1 | `bool` (as `0` or `1`) | 0


### Independent coupled basis scan keyword
The `SINGLE-COUPLED-SCAN` keyword can be used to set up a scan on the number of basis functions for each dihedral angle. The function varies the basis set cutoff for the selected dihedral and overrides the corresponent`SINGLE-COUPLED-BASIS` instruction. The following four `integer` syntax can be used:
```
# SINGLE-COUPLED-SCAN
<dihedral number>, <initial basis set>, <final basis set>, <step>
```
For example the instruction:
```
# SINGLE-COUPLED-SCAN
0, 4, 7, 1
```
will run a calculation for `4`, `5`, `6`, `7` basis functions for the first rotor of the chain while keeping the number of basis function constant for the remaining rotors. Multiple scan instructions are not implemented at the moment, subsequent calls to `SINGLE-COUPLED-SCAN` will override all previous instructions except the last one. If the user want to scan all dihedral simultaneousy the keyword `LOCKED-COUPLED-SCAN` must be used (see next section for more details).

### Locked coupled basis scan keyword
The `LOCKED-COUPLED-SCAN` keyword can be used to set up a scan on the number of basis functions for all the dihedral angles in the chain. The function varies the basis set cutoff for all the dihedrals and overrides the corresponent`COUPLED-BASIS` instruction. The following three `integer` syntax can be used:
```
# LOCKED-COUPLED-SCAN
<initial basis set>, <final basis set>, <step>
```
For example the instruction:
```
# LOCKED-COUPLED-SCAN
4, 7, 1
```
will run a calculation setting the cutoff for all dihedral basis to `4`, `5`, `6`, `7`.

### Debug data
When the debug mode is activated the following additional files will be generated by the program:
* Isolated dihedral data files `iso_n.txt` with `n` index of the dihedral in the rotor chain
* Composite basis-function data file `comp.txt` (only for single calculations, not saved during scans)

The isolated dihedral data file will report, for each dihedral in the chain, the coefficients of expansion of the single dihedral eigenfunctions on a set of real Fourier basis functions of increasing order. The file is parted in even and odd substaces; each section is initiated by a comment line marked by the `#` character. Each line of the file starts with an integer indicating the order of the eigenvector and contains, in a `\t` separated sequence, all the eigenfunction coefficients. If a total of `K` Fourier functions where used in the calculation a file lenght of `K+2` is expected with a number of `K/2+1` columns for each line (if `K` is odd the even basis set should contain one function more than the odd one).

The composite basis-function data file will contain a report of the single dihedral basis functions employed in the construction of the composite basis set. The file is parted in even and odd substaces; each section is initiated by a comment line marked by the `#` character. For a chain of `N+1` rotors each line in the file will contain, in a `\t` separated sequence, the following data: an integer index, `N` values representing the order of each isolated rotor eigenfunctions and `N` values representing their parity. The total number of line in the file is expected to be `M+2` with `M` equal to the product of number set in the `#COUPLED-BASIS` section.